Joseph Rowley
Program 2
CS 101
Winter 2013

I was unable to successfully modify the program to make it work using the heap
data structure. I correctly implemented a minHeap data structure and it’s
associated methods fairly quickly - within 2 hours - but actually incorporating
into the existing program proved too time consuming for me - I spent close to
10-15 hours on it to no avail. 

Both the original program and the new program rely on a 2D array to keep track
of collisions between balls. The first implementation of the program required a
series of auxiliary arrays to be filled for each row of the 2D array. Then the
min of this array was calculated to find the soonest collision. This requires
O(n^2) time to compute. The minHeap reduces this time by automatically keeping
the minimum element. Retrieving the element costs O(1) time since it only
requires accessing element zero of the Heap Array. To insert a new element to
the minHeap, in this case a collision object with time as it’s sorting value, we
must add a new element to the tree in the correct heap structure order. This is
always the last element of the array that is not null, or right of the last node
at the deepest depth on the tree. Then we must satisfy the order property by
comparing the given element with its parent. If the child element is smaller
than the parent we swap them, and we continue this until the order property is
satisfied. Then we have to compare the parent element in a similar fashion until
it finds its place. The heap is a perfectly balanced tree with height of O(log_2
n) at most, so we must spend O(log_2 n) comparisons in the worst case. Deleting
the top element requires a similar method and requires O(log_2 n) comparisons.
In the worst case, we have n calls to removeMin, which is O(log_2 n), thus we
have a worst case for this implementation of O(nlog_2 n). 
